---
layout: default 
title: ITW 2020 - Lessons Learned
---

Some days ago (April 12-15th, 2021) the [IEEE Information Theory Workshop 2020](https://itw2020.it/) (ITW 2020, yes, in 2021...) took place. It was a virtual event that had many interesting tutorials, invited speakers, and presented papers. In this post, I would like to write about the things I learned during some of the talks I attended and point to some very cool papers I had the pleasure to discover and read.

The topics I will talk about are the following, in case you don't want to read everything or, like me, like a little organization:
    
* [Tutorials and Plenaries](#tutorials-and-plenaries)

    * [Explicit and Implicit Inductive Bias in Deep Learning](#explicit-and-implicit-inductive-bias-in-deep-learning), by Nathan Srebro

    * [Data Driven Algorithm Design](#data-driven-algorithm-design), by Maria Florina Balcan


* [Invited Talks in Learning Theory](#invited-talks-in-learning-theory)


* [Accepted Papers](#accepted-papers) 

## Tutorials and Plenaries

### Explicit and Implicit Inductive Bias in Deep Learning

This tutorial was given by Nathan Srebro and it was a great way to remember what we know about statistical learning, what we know that does not explain deep learning, and a beautiful approach at studying the implicit inductive biases of the beloved gradient descent algorithm.

### [Data Driven Algorithm Design](https://weconf.eu/ieee-itw-2020/recsession/itw2020-plenary-talk-3)

This plenary was held by Maria Florina Balcan. She explain some of the research they are doing to design and analyse algorithms _a la learning theory_. In a nutshell (a slightly larger nutshell, maybe a coconutshell (?), below) they consider a family of algorithms $\mathcal{F}$ and $N$ samples from a domain $\mathcal{D}$, and they study how to find an algorithm $\hat{f}$ from the family $\mathcal{F}$ that will work well to new instances from the domain $\mathcal{D}$.

I was very surprised I never heard from this line of work before, since they consistently had accepted papers in many of the top ML conferences (e.g. [](), [](), []()...). In any case, the work is very interesting and I would recommend to go read their papers, look at her talk, and only if you are very short in time and are okay in missing some of the details read the rest of the post. 

## Invited Talks in Learning Theory

### Suboptimality of Constrained Linear Least Squares and Improvements via Improper Learners

This talk was given by Nikita Zhivotovskiy.

### A Non-Asymptotic Analysis for Stein Variational Gradient Descent

This talk was given by Anna Korba.


### An introduction to Gated Linear Networks
    
    
This talk was given by Joel Veness. 


### Active Regret Minimization with Expert Advice
    

This talk was given by Jacob Abernethy

### Smoothed Analysis of Online and Differentially Private Learning 

This talk was given by Nika Haghtalab.

## Accepted papers 

First I want to say that there were many interesting and nice papers in the conference. The ones below are just a sample of them that in some way or another align with my research. I will write a short note about them in the order they were presented.

### Jensen-Shannon Information Based Characterization of the Generalization Error of Learning Algorithms

[paper] [video]

This is a paper by Gholamali Aminian, Laura Toni, and Miguel Rodrigues.

### Learning, compression, and leakage: Minimizing classification error via meta-universal compression principles

[paper] [video]

This is a paper by Fernando Rosas, Pedro Mediano, and Michael Gastpar.

### Measuring Dependencies of Order Statistics: An Information Theoretic Perspective 

[paper] [video]

This is a paper by Alex Dytso, Martina Cardone, and Cynthia Rush.

### Secret Sharing from Correlated Gaussian Random Variables and Public Communication 

[paper] [video]

This is a paper by Vidhi Rana, Remi A Chou and Hyuck Kwon.

### Data Disclosure Mechanism Design with Non-zero Leakage

[paper] [video]

This is a paper by my colleagues Amirreza Zamani, Tobias J. Oechtering, and Mikael Skoglund.

###  On Random Subset Generalization Error Bounds and the Stochastic Gradient Langevin Dynamics Algorithm 

[paper] [video]

This is actually a paper of my own along with my colleagues Germán Bassi, Ragnar Thobaben and Mikael Skoglund.

### Privacy-Utility Tradeoff with Nonspecific Tasks: Robust Privatization and Minimum Leakage

[paper] [video]

This is a paper by Ta-Yuan Liu and I-Hsiang Wang.